As a manager, you will absolutely need to give presentations.
Don't want to?
Well then management is not for you.
They are a key part of your new team's success, so get good at them.
Okay, well what's a presentation?
It is basically you standing in front of an audience,
not sitting hitting the keyboard, I want you to stand,
and it can be a small or large audience,
talking and presenting your material using a media device,
like a screen, and likely using a presentation tool,
like PowerPoint or any one you might like to use.
Now you are making the presentation for a reason, a purpose.
You want something typically from your audience, an expected outcome.
This is really important.
Before you write your presentation,
determine what it is that you want the outcome to be,
write it down and use it as a guide as you build your presentation.
And after you write each slide or develop each slide,
does that slide contribute to your expected outcome?
If not, change or delete the slide.
Now some benefits here, when you're trying to convey and communicate with others,
in a presentation format you are interacting with
your audience about your topic.
Observe their reactions to what you say and show,
gauge their level of understanding.
Emphasize your key points and assess the level and
quality of acceptance of your message.
This gives you a real time opportunity to adjust or tweak your
message to further make your key points and to better ensure
you get your intended outcome.
So the benefit to presentations is the real time feedback,
their body language and validation or maybe even rejection of your message,
you can't get that with texting, you can't get that with emails,
you can't get that with status reports.
Okay, now let's see why having your outcome in mind is essential.
So here are my recommendations for successful presentations.
As I mentioned before,
have the outcome in mind before you start writing your presentation,
know exactly what you want to accomplish.
If you were given a topic or assignment from your manager,
review it and be sure you fully understand it before you begin.
Now who is your audience?
Well find out and know who your audience will be,
what they may expect from the presentation and who are you about to talk.
Maybe who you thought would be there is not, maybe others have shown up.
Always be prepared to adapt.
As long as the core message is in your presentation,
you can use words to evolve or adapt and reengineer your message if need be.
So that's why I like very lean presentations.
If you have bulleted items and they're 2 or 3 sentences each,
throw it away, red flag, not good.
As you've seen in this presentation, maybe other Pluralsight presentations,
you want really lean and mean screens.
Lastly, research your topic,
it's important to spend enough time collecting and confirming
information in order to speak with confidence and knowledge.
Let me repeat that,
confidence and knowledge will be felt and believed by your audience and
they will then translate that into believing your message.
I know that might sound kind of, really, is that how it works?
But many times it does.
So you need to be confident and knowledgeable and typically your
message will be more acceptable and agreeable.
Okay, now let's see a few more.
Now let's get organized and do some planning for our presentations.
So organize the main points in the most appropriate
order for the topic you're presenting.
Avoid writing complete sentences or paragraphs,
and maybe not even prepare note cards,
but you can to help you elaborate on the information presented.
I prefer you spending time with short, short bullets,
understanding your topic, use eye contact and not notes.
But if you're still learning and that gives you a little more confidence,
then go ahead.
But the goal is to have no note cards to me,
be confident, and present the message.
Okay align your presentation too to a bigger purpose or goal.
What's it tying into for the business?
What are the business drivers, the real reasons why you're there?
It's kind of back to purpose again in your outcome.
You know, maybe it's tied to the company's strategic interests and objectives.
And then determine your delivery medium,
you know, I mentioned PowerPoint,
it's become almost the ultimate most widely used presentation program around,
but there are a lot of great tools,
use what makes sense for you and maybe fits your corporate standard as well,
but you may also need to display text in a certain way or
movies or videos and have a graphic set that,
you know, can really show the points you're trying to make.
Alright,
so that's kind of presentations in a nutshell and now let's move on to formal meetings.